> ## **Target Filename Code:** T1-U11
>
> **Total PDF Pages:** 5
> **Currently Processing:** Pages 1 to 5

### \--- PRINTED PAGE 102 ---

`[*LAYOUT: Sidebar listing unit objectives.*]`
**11 BODIES**
**OBJECTIVES**
**FUNCTIONS:** sympathising; making predictions
**GRAMMAR:** will/won't for future predictions; first conditional; time clauses with when / as soon as
**VOCABULARY:** parts of the body; when and if; expressions with do

`[*VISUAL: An illustration of a boy standing, with letters A through L pointing to various parts of his body to be labeled. A points to the hair/head, B to the ear, C to the eye, D to the mouth, E to the arm, F to the hand/fingers, G to the thumb, H to the thigh muscle, I to the knee bone, J to the lower leg, K to the foot, L to the toe.*]`

**READING**

**1** Label the picture with the words in the list. Write 1-12 in the boxes.
1 arm | 2 leg | 3 mouth | 4 muscle | 5 finger | 6 foot | 7 ear | 8 eye | 9 toe | 10 hair | 11 bone | 12 thumb

A [ ]
B [ ]
C [ ]
D [ ]
E [ ]
F [ ]
G [ ]
H [ ]
I [ ]
J [ ]
K [ ]
L [ ]

**2** Write the words from Exercise 1 in the correct column.

| Body | Face |
| :--- | :--- |
| arm | mouth |
| | |

**3 SPEAKING** Work in pairs. Discuss the questions.
Which parts of the body do you use when you:

  * read a book?
  * play football?
  * watch television?
  * make a phone call?
  * eat a meal?
  * walk to school?

> When you read a book you use your hands and your eyes.

**4** Look at the picture on page 103 and the title. What do you think the article will be about?
Choose one of the following.

1.  What we want to look like in the future.
2.  What the human body will be like in the future.
3.  How we can change our bodies if we want.

**5** Read and listen to the article and check your ideas.

**6** Read the article again and answer the questions.

1.  What is the most important reason why our bodies will change in the future?
2.  Why will people be taller?
3.  Why will people get weaker?
4.  What will happen to eyes and fingers?
5.  Why will we have one less toe?
6.  Why won't people have so much hair on their bodies?

### \--- PRINTED PAGE 103 ---

**11 FUTURE BODIES**

`[*VISUAL: An illustration of a futuristic human. The figure has a large, bulbous head, large staring eyes, a very small mouth, an enlarged neck area, weak arms with long thin fingers, a thick torso, and short, thin legs.*]`

> **Changing bodies**
>
> A long time ago, people were very different from the way we are now. For example, if you find a really old house somewhere, you'll see that the doors are usually much lower than they are today. Why? Because hundreds of years ago, people were shorter. Over time, the human body changes to adapt to a new way of life.
>
> Can we expect the human body to change in the future? For sure. And the main reason is that we have more and more technology, and it is changing how we live. What kind of changes can we expect? Well, no one can be 100 per cent sure, but here are some possibilities.
>
> **1** Let's start with the example above. Humans are now ten centimetres taller than 150 years ago. So, in the future, people will probably be even taller. Most of us now have much better food than people in the past and so we grow more.
>
> **2** We'll get weaker in more than one way. The most important way is that our muscles will not be as strong as now because we won't do a lot of physical work.
>
> **3** We are already using our feet less, and our hands more (think about computers and tablets and so on). So we can expect that our legs will get shorter and our feet smaller, and at the same time, our fingers will get longer. And our fingers and our eyes will both get better, because they'll have to do more work together.
>
> **4** Now, what about the mouth? It'll get smaller, perhaps, because technological improvements will mean that we don't need to talk so much and also because our teeth will get smaller (so mouths don't need to be so big to keep them in).
>
> **5** Here's a good one - it's very possible that people will have four toes, not five. The little toe really isn't needed any more (people who lose them don't miss them) so it will probably disappear some time in the future.
>
> **6** And last but not least - people won't have as much hair on their bodies as now, as we don't need it to keep ourselves warm any more.
>
> Will all these things happen? And if so, when? These are questions that no one can answer for sure.

`[*LAYOUT: Sidebar box for THINK VALUES*]`
**THINK VALUES**
**Exercise and health**

**1** Read the sentences. Give each one a number from 1 to 5 (1 = doesn't give a lot of importance to health and 5 = gives a lot of importance to health).

  * [ ] 1. You should do regular exercise to make sure your muscles are strong.
  * [ ] 2. It's OK to spend a lot of time sitting in front of the television.
  * [ ] 3. A wonderful thing to do is go for long walks in the fresh air.
  * [ ] 4. Using a computer and writing text messages gives your hands and arms exercise.
  * [ ] 5. You don't have to do sport to be healthy and keep fit.
  * [ ] 6. It's a good idea to do a lot of simple exercise (for example, use the stairs and don't take the lift).

**2 SPEAKING** Work in small groups. Talk about health and exercise.

1.  Together, decide the number that the group is going to give to each of the sentences in Exercise 1.
2.  Together, decide on and write another sentence that shows how the group feels about health and exercise.
3.  Compare your ideas with other groups.

### \--- PRINTED PAGE 104 ---

`[*VISUAL: A grid of close-up photographs showing various body parts labeled with letters. A: Back of a neck. B: A chin/throat. C: A flexed bicep muscle. D: Close-up of lips. E: An ankle. I (sic): A person's back. J (sic): A person's shoulder/arm. Below these are three cartoon illustrations. A: Two girls talking, one looks upset. B: A boy looking worried sitting at a table with his mother. C: A football player clutching his leg in pain on a field while another player looks on.*]`

**GRAMMAR**
**will/won't for future predictions**

**1** Look at the sentences from the article on page 103. Complete with will / 'll / won't. Then complete the rule.

1.  Our fingers \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ get longer.
2.  They \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ have to do more work together.
3.  Our muscles \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ be as strong as now, because we \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ do a lot of physical work.

> **RULE:** Use 1\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (will) or 2\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (will not) + base form of the verb to make predictions about the future.

**2** Complete the table.

| Positive | Negative |
| :--- | :--- |
| I/you/we/they/he/she/it 1\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (will) come | I/you/we/they/he/she/it 2\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (will not) come |

| Questions | Short answers |
| :--- | :--- |
| 3\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ I/you/we/they/he/she/it come? | Yes, I/you/we/they/he/she/it 4\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.<br>No, I/you/we/they/he/she/it 5\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (will not). |

**3** Complete the conversation. Use 'll, will or won't and a verb from the list.
*get | stay | go | see | give | be | help*

**ALICE:** Oh, Mark, it's the French test tomorrow\! I hate French. I'm sure I ^0^**won't get** the answers right\!
**MARK:** Don't worry, you ^1^\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ fine\! You got a good result in your last test.
**ALICE:** Yes, but this is more difficult. I really don't feel well. Maybe I ^2^\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ to school tomorrow. I ^3^\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ in bed all day.
**MARK:** That ^4^\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ you. The teacher ^5^\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ you the test on Wednesday.
**ALICE:** You're right. But what can I do?
**MARK:** Look, why don't I come round to your place this afternoon after school? We can do some French together. You ^6^\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ that it's not so difficult.
**ALICE:** Oh, thanks, Mark.

**4 SPEAKING** Work in pairs. Act out the conversation in Exercise 3.

**Pronunciation**
The /h/ consonant sound
Go to page 121.

**VOCABULARY**
**Parts of the body**

**1** Match the words with the photos. Write numbers 1-10 in the boxes.
1 ankle | 2 back | 3 elbow | 4 knees | 5 lips | 6 neck | 7 shoulder | 8 stomach | 9 throat | 10 tongue

A [ ]
B [ ]
C [ ]
D [ ]
E [ ]
I [ ]
J [ ]

**2** Listen and match the speakers (1, 2 and 3) with the pictures. Write numbers 1-3 in the boxes.
A [ ]
B [ ]
C [ ]

### \--- PRINTED PAGE 105 ---

**11 FUTURE BODIES**

`[*VISUAL: A continuation of illustrations and photos. Top row features three cartoon scenarios: Panel A shows a girl and boy walking outside, the boy looks unhappy and is touching his back. Panel B shows a girl sitting on an exam table in a doctor's office, talking to a female doctor. Panel C shows a boy sitting in an armchair looking in pain, touching his leg/ankle, while a woman stands next to him looking concerned. Bottom row features three close-up anatomical photos: D shows a shoulder. E shows an ankle. F shows a back.*]`

**LISTENING**

**1** Look at the pictures A-C. Answer these questions for each one.

1.  Who are the two people?
2.  Where are the two people?

**2** Listen to three conversations. Match the pictures with the conversations. Complete the table. Write A, B or C in the 'Speakers' column and D, E or F in the 'Problem' column.

| | Speakers (A, B, or C) | Problem (D, E, or F) |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Conversation 1** | | |
| **Conversation 2** | | |
| **Conversation 3** | | |

**3** Listen again. Mark the statements T (true) or F (false).

1.  Katie hurt her shoulder while she was skateboarding.
2.  When Katie fell, it wasn't a bad fall.
3.  David's ankle hurts all the time.
4.  David's mother wants to take him to the doctor.
5.  Sam didn't tell his parents about his back.
6.  Molly wants to take Sam to see the doctor at school.

**4** Who said these things? Match the sentences with the speakers.

1.  Are you all right? -\> a. the doctor
2.  Does it hurt? -\> b. David's mother
3.  What's the matter? -\> c. Sam
4.  It hurts a bit. -\> d. Molly
5.  My shoulder hurts. -\> e. David
6.  I've got backache. -\> f. Katie

**SPEAKING**

**Work in pairs. Choose one of the pictures above (A, B or C) in Exercise 2. Role play the conversation.**

1.  Decide who will be each person in the picture.
2.  Choose a different part of the body from the conversation you heard for your picture (example: for Picture A, choose 'head' not 'back').
3.  Have a conversation.
4.  Now choose another picture. Change roles.

`[*LAYOUT: Sidebar box titled THINK SELF-ESTEEM*]`
**THINK SELF-ESTEEM**
**Getting help**

**1** Read and tick (✓) the sentences that are true for you.

  * [ ] 1. I don't like going to the doctor and so I don't go.
  * [ ] 2. If I have a problem, I don't like telling other people about it.
  * [ ] 3. If I don't feel well, I tell someone.
  * [ ] 4. I don't want other people to worry about me.
  * [ ] 5. It's OK to get help from people around you.
  * [ ] 6. It's important to go to the doctor if you often have the same health problem.

**2 SPEAKING** Compare your ideas in class.

**3** Who can you talk to about these problems?

1.  a headache
2.  a problem at school
3.  difficult homework
4.  a problem with a friend

`[*LAYOUT: Small sidebar titled LOOK! with four words.*]`
**LOOK\!**
stomach ache
ear ache
headache
toothache

### \--- APPENDIX: PDF PAGE 5 ---

**Audio Script Track 2.34**

**1**
**Boy 1:** Are you OK?
**Boy 2:** No, ouch. My knee\! Aaargh\!

**2**
**Girl:** I ate a lot of food last night. My stomach really isn't too good this morning.

**3**
**Woman:** Don't eat so quickly you'll bite your tongue. See? I told you\!

-----

**Audio Script Track 2.35**

**1**
**Doctor:** Hello Katie. What can I do for you?
**Katie:** Well, it's my shoulder.
**Doctor:** OK. And what's the problem with it? Does it hurt?
**Katie:** Yes. I fell over while I was skateboarding the other day.
**Doctor:** Was that yesterday?
**Katie:** No it was ... um two days ago I think. Yes, Tuesday.
**Doctor:** OK. And you fell on your shoulder?
**Katie:** Well, no, I fell on my arm really. And it wasn't bad, you know. I just got up and went back to skateboarding. But now my shoulder hurts. Um, I can't move it very well.
**Doctor:** OK, well let's have a look at it. Can you take your shirt off for me please?
**Katie:** Yes, OK.

**2**
**Mum:** Are you all right, David?
**David:** Erm, yeah, yes thanks, Mum.
**Mum:** Sure?
**David:** Well, actually, no, not really. I think I've got a problem with my ankle.
**Mum:** Your ankle?
**David:** Yes. It's really strange. Um, yesterday I was walking home and it was OK, but then it just started hurting, I don't know why. Then it stopped.
**Mum:** But now it's hurting again?
**David:** Yes, but it's kind of on and off. You know, sometimes it's OK but sometimes it hurts a bit.
**Mum:** Perhaps you should see the doctor. What do you think?
**David:** Yes, perhaps.
**Mum:** OK, I'll phone and see if we can go this afternoon.
**David:** Thanks, Mum.

**3**
**Sam:** Hello, Molly.
**Molly:** Hey, Sam. Hey - are you OK?
**Sam:** No, I've got a bit of a problem.
**Molly:** Yes, I can see. You're walking a bit funny.
**Sam:** I know. It's my back.
**Molly:** Your back? What's the matter with your back?
**Sam:** I dunno. I mean, I woke up this morning and got out of bed and I felt a bit of a pain in my back. Now I've got backache.
**Molly:** Did you tell your mum and dad?
**Sam:** Well, it wasn't bad and I didn't think about it much, so no, I didn't. But now...
**Molly:** Look, I'll carry your school bag, OK?
**Sam:** Right, thanks.
**Molly:** And when we get to school, I'll take you to see the nurse.
**Sam:** OK. Thanks, Molly.