> ## **Target Filename Code:** Think1-U11
> **Total PDF Pages:** 5
> **Currently Processing:** Pages 1 to 5

### --- PRINTED PAGE 106 ---

[*VISUAL: Five cartoon illustrations labeled A through E. 
A: A mother looking concerned while her son looks angry with his arms crossed. 
B: A father talking to a young girl, with a speech bubble showing a night sky, an eye, and a carrot. 
C: A father looking up at a young girl who has climbed high into a tree. 
D: A father relaxing in a red armchair reading a newspaper while two children run around behind him making noise. 
E: A mother talking to two children sitting on a pink sofa, staring blankly at a television.*]

**READING**

1 Read the webchats. Write a name under each picture: Arlene, Pete, Susie, Julia or Mike.

2 Read the webchats again. Who talks about these things? Write the names.
1 eyes 
2 a vegetable 
3 dangerous things 
4 making faces 
5 making a noise 

3 **SPEAKING** Do you know any more 'crazy' things that adults say to children? Tell the class.

**Crazy things that parents say to their kids**

**Arlene**
Now I'm eighteen, I can look back at all those happy days when I was a kid at home! And I remember the things that my mum and dad said to me again and again. For example: when my sister and I were making a noise, my father always said, 'If I have to come over there, you won't be happy to see me!' lol. Did your parents ever say things like that to you?

**Pete**
LIKE COMMENT SHARE
Oh of course! My little brother and me, we loved TV and we sat and watched it for hours every day. And my mum always looked at us and said, 'If you watch TV all the time, you'll get square eyes.' Well, we watched a lot of TV and our eyes are still normal, haha!

**Susie**
You reminded me, Pete. My dad always said, 'If you sit too close to the TV, you'll go blind.' But he had another favourite too (I think he was always worried about our eyes, for some reason) - he said, 'If you eat all your carrots, you'll see in the dark!' I really like carrots - I ate them when I was a kid and I eat them now - but I still can't see in the dark!

**Julia**
I always liked doing dangerous things - you know, climbing trees and things. And my dad said, 'If you fall, you'll break your leg.' And he always added, 'And when you break your leg, don't come running to me for help!' I didn't understand the joke for years!

**Mike**
Nice one, Julia! OK here's another one, and I think every child in the world hears this. If I was angry or upset, I always made a face, and my mum said, 'If you go on making that face, the wind will change and your face will stay like that forever!' That's the only one I remember - but as soon as I think of others, I'll send them to you!

**GRAMMAR**
**First conditional**

1 Match the parts of the sentences. Check your answers in the webchats. Then complete the rule and the table. Choose the correct words.

**RULE:** Use the first conditional to talk about possible / certain events and their present / future results.

| If clause | Result clause |
| :--- | :--- |
| If + present simple, | will ('ll) / will not (won't) + base form |

1 [ ] If you eat all your carrots,
2 [ ] If I have to come over there,
3 [ ] If you fall,

a you won't be happy to see me.
b you'll break your leg.
c you'll see in the dark.

[*LAYOUT: A sidebar note reads:*]
It is possible to put the result clause first
If you fall, you'll hurt yourself. OR
You'll hurt yourself if you fall.

### --- PRINTED PAGE 107 ---

**11 FUTURE BODIES**

2 Put the words in order to make sentences.
0 see Jane, / If / tell / I / I'll / her
If I see Jane, I'll tell her.
1 my parents / I'm / will / If / late, / be angry
2 I / bring it / I'll / to school tomorrow / If / remember,
3 you'll / Jake / come / If / you / meet / to the party,
4 rain tomorrow / if / the / it / doesn't / We'll / to / beach / go
5 the concert / if / tonight / I / don't / I / won't / feel / better / go / to

**VOCABULARY**
**when and if**

1 Match sentences 1 and 2 with the explanations.
1 When I see Martin, I'll give him your message.
2 If I see Martin, I'll give him your message.

a It is possible that I will meet Martin.
b I know that I will meet Martin.

2 Complete the sentences with *if* or *when*.
0 I can't talk to you now. I'll phone you **when** I get home.
1 **A** What are you doing tomorrow?
**B** _____ there's a good film on, I'll probably go to the cinema.
2 I'm not sure if I want to go to the party tonight. But _____ I decide to go, I'll phone you.
3 It's too hot to go for a walk now. Let's go out in the evening, _____ it's cooler.
4 You can watch some TV _____ you finish your homework, and not before!
5 It's the football final tonight. I'll be very happy _____ my team wins.
*Workbook page 102*

3 Complete the first conditional sentences with the correct form of the verbs.
0 If Kate **gives** (give) me some help, I**'ll finish** (finish) my homework in an hour.
1 You _____ (not meet) anyone if you _____ (not go out).
2 I _____ (come) to your party if my mum _____ (say) I can.
3 If Ken _____ (not want) his ice cream, I _____ (eat) it.
4 Susan _____ (be) angry if she _____ (hear) about this.
5 If we _____ (buy) hamburgers, we _____ (not have) enough money for the film.

**ROLE PLAY**
Work in pairs. Student A: Go to page 127. Student B: Go to page 128. Ask and answer the questions.
*Workbook page 101*

**Time clauses with *when / as soon as***

4 Read the two sentences and answer the questions. Then complete the rule with *will* and *present simple*.
*When we get to school, I'll take you to see the nurse.*
*As soon as I think of other examples, I'll tell you.*

1 What is the difference between *when* and *as soon as*?
2 Do *get* and *think* refer to the present or future?

**RULE:** In sentences about the future, we use the _____ form after *if* or *when* or *as soon as*, and _____ + base form of the verb in the main clause.

5 Complete the sentences. Use the verbs in the list.
*finish (x2) | get (x2) | arrive*
1 As soon as I _____ my exam results, I'll phone you.
2 When I _____ home, I'll check my messages.
3 The party will start as soon as my friend _____ with the music!
4 When the game _____ , we'll go and have a pizza.
5 I'll lend you the book as soon as I _____ reading it.
*Workbook page 101*

**LISTENING AND WRITING**
**A phone message**

1 Which of these things do you NOT need to write down if you take a phone message?
Mark the things with a cross (X).
1 the name of the caller [ ]
2 the telephone number of the person who takes the message [ ]
3 the name of the person who the message is for [ ]
4 the telephone number of the caller [ ]
5 what the caller wants [ ]

2 Listen to a telephone conversation. Complete the message.
Message from: 1 _____
For: 2 _____
Message: she needs 3 _____ Please 4 _____
Number to call: 5 _____

### --- PRINTED PAGE 108 ---

[*VISUAL: Four sequential photos telling a story, labeled 1 to 4. 
Photo 1: A group of four teenagers (two girls, two boys) are walking in a park. In the background, a mother is reprimanding a young boy who is holding an orange frisbee. 
Photo 2: The group stops to talk, looking slightly concerned. 
Photo 3: One of the girls (Megan) receives a phone call and looks shocked and distressed while the others watch her. 
Photo 4: A closer shot of Megan on the phone, holding her hand up as if telling her friends to be quiet so she can hear.*]

**PHOTOSTORY: episode 6**
**The phone call**

1 Read and listen to the photostory and answer the questions.
Why is Megan's father stressed?
Who phones Megan while she's in the park?

**Olivia:** Aw, look!
**Luke:** Looks like they're having a good time.
**Woman:** Jason?! You stop that. Do you hear me? Stop it!
**Ryan:** What did you say, Luke?
**Olivia:** Well, we all know what that's like - your parents, shouting at you.
**Megan:** Oh, don't, please! The last couple of days...
**Ryan:** What?
**Megan:** Oh, my dad. He's really stressed. He's got a big business meeting he has to attend, out of town tomorrow and Friday.
**Luke:** Something important?
**Megan:** I suppose so. I don't know.
**Ryan:** Well, I think you should know. I mean, he's your father, right? Family and stuff.
**Megan:** Yeah, yeah. Whatever. But I know one thing: he shouts at me all the time. Everything I do is wrong.
**Olivia:** Poor you.
**Woman:** Jason! I told you don't do that! If I have to go over there...
**Megan:** Just like that. Another few years and I can leave home! I can't wait!
**Olivia:** Just think, Megan. You'll be a mother too one day. Then you'll remember this.
**Ryan:** That's right. And when we're parents, we'll be just the same as our parents. Wait and see.
**Megan:** Hello? Oh, hello, Dad. What is it? I'm in the park.
**Luke:** Tell you what, though. If our parents weren't...
**Megan:** Shh!! Dad, say that again. What? The hospital? Mum?

### --- PRINTED PAGE 109 ---

**11 FUTURE BODIES**

**DEVELOPING SPEAKING**

2 Work in pairs. Discuss what happens next in the story. Write down your ideas.
> *Perhaps Megan has to go to the hospital.*

3 Watch to find out how the story continues.

4 Answer the questions.
1 What happened to Megan's mother?
2 When will her mother go home?
3 What is the problem for Megan's father?
4 Why can Megan help without going to school?
5 What does Megan say to the others is 'the good thing'?
6 What does Luke mean when he says: 'It's all ups and downs'?

**PHRASES FOR FLUENCY**

1 Find the expressions 1-6 in the story. Who says them? Match them to the definitions a-f.
1 I suppose so.
2 I mean,
3 Whatever.
4 I can't wait.
5 Wait and see.
6 Tell you what,

a What I want to say is...
b I really don't care.
c Here's what I think...
d I think that's possibly true.
e You'll know in the future.
f I hope it happens very soon.

2 Complete the conversations. Use the expressions 1-6 in Exercise 1.
1 **A** I'm going to see the new Ryan Gosling film on Saturday!
**B** _____ we could go together, if that's OK with you.
2 **A** What are you going to give me for my birthday?
**B** _____ It's a surprise!
3 **A** You look so funny in that yellow shirt.
**B** _____ Alex.
4 **A** Can I go out tonight, Dad?
**B** _____ . But don't be late back, OK?

**WordWise**
**Expressions with *do***

1 Complete the sentences from the video.
1 She was doing some _____ upstairs.
2 I can do the _____ and everything.
3 Thanks. She's doing _____ though.

2 Complete the sentences with a word from the list.
*ice cream | homework | cooking | well*
1 Joe's upstairs - he's doing his _____ .
2 Did you do _____ in your exam?
3 They do great _____ at the new café.
4 Mum has a rest on Sundays and we all do the _____ .

3 **SPEAKING** Complete the questions. Then ask and answer with a partner.
1 _____ you _____ a lot of exercise?
2 Where _____ you _____ your homework?
3 _____ you _____ OK with your schoolwork these days?
4 Who _____ the cleaning in your house?

**FUNCTIONS**
**Sympathising**
*Workbook page 102*

1 Complete the extracts from the story with the phrases in the list.
*Poor you. | That's a shame. | I'm sorry to hear that. | poor thing.*

1 **MEGAN** But I know one thing: he shouts at me all the time. Everything I do is wrong.
**OLIVIA** _____ .
2 **MEGAN** Oh, _____ . Well, she'll be home tomorrow.
**DAD** That's right. Then a few days at home.
3 **RYAN** _____ , Megan.
**OLIVIA** Me too.
**MEGAN** Thanks. She's doing OK, though.
4 **MEGAN** But it means I can't go out with you guys on Friday.
**RYAN** _____ .

2 Read the situations. What can you say in each one?
1 You meet a friend. You know that your friend lost something important yesterday.
> *Poor you!*
2 You hear that Alex broke his arm last weekend. You meet Alex's brother.
3 Your neighbour says: 'I feel terrible today - I think I'm ill.'

### --- APPENDIX: PDF PAGE 5 ---

**Audio Script Track 2.36**

**Man:** Hello?
**Girl:** Oh hi, Mr. Gardner. It's Jackie here, Jackie Martin, Andy's friend from school.
**Man:** Yes, Jackie. Hi. Listen. I'm afraid Andy's not here. He'll be back in about an hour, I think.
**Girl:** Oh dear. I really need to talk to him.
**Man:** Do you want to leave a message?
**Girl:** Yes, please. Um. Well, the thing is, I've got a problem with my homework. The science homework.
**Man:** OK.
**Girl:** And I need to finish it tonight because we're going away tomorrow, for the weekend.
**Man:** Right. So, you want Andy to call you tonight?
**Girl:** Yes, please. As soon as he gets back, please.
**Man:** "As soon as you get back." OK. Has he got your number?
**Girl:** I'm not sure. I've got a new mobile, so can I tell you?
**Man:** Sure.
**Girl:** It's 07899.
**Man:** 07899.
**Girl:** 213 223.
**Man:** 213 223. OK, got that, Jackie. Leave it to me. I'll make sure he gets the message.
**Girl:** Thanks, Mr. Gardner. Thanks very much. Bye.
**Man:** Bye.